So let's go ahead and create
an Amazon Aurora database.
Now, just so you know, if you follow along with me
with this hands-on, it's going to cost you a bit of money.
The most important thing for you is to just
follow the instructions and to see what the options are.
But you don't need to actually go ahead
and create the database
if you don't have some money to spare for it.
So we're going to choose a standard create.
And as you can see we have two different options for Aurora,
we have the MySQL-compatible option
and the PostgresSQL-compatible option.
For this hands-on, I'm going to use MySQL.
I will scroll down and here you have to choose a version.
So you have a version selector right here.
And you can have filters, for example,
to only show the version that supports
the global database feature,
or the ones that support the parallel query feature
or the ones that support Serverless v2 feature.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to keep
the default version as proposed by the Aurora console,
which is 3.04.1.
But this may be a different version for you.
Next, I will choose a template
and basically choosing production
allows me to configure everything.
So this is what we want to do.
We'll choose production.
For the DB cluster identifier in RDS,
we'll choose database two.
We have the master username being admin,
and then you can enter a password,
which I will right now.
Okay, then for cluster storage configuration,
you have two options.
You can have Aurora standard or IO optimized.
So if you have high input and output operations,
read and write operations on your Aurora database
you may want the IO optimized.
But for cost-effective workloads
that don't use Aurora too much,
then you may want to use Aurora standard.
Now for instance configuration,
you have the possibility of choosing
the class of instance you want for your database.
So you can see you have different ones
that can be memory optimized.
You have the burstable classes and you can choose
to include the previous generation classes,
it works sometimes.
But for now I'll just use db.t3 medium.
And also if you use a version
that is compatible with serverless,
you will see the Serverless v2 two option here.
And in here you don't select the instance type,
you just select what's called an Aurora capacity unit,
ACU, and you say, well, there is a minimum ACU you want
and the maximum ACU you want
and this will allow your database to scale
between these two capacity units automatically.
So for now, I'm going to use burstable classes
of db.t3 medium.
Now for availability and durability,
we have the option to have Aurora replicas.
So here we create an Aurora replica
and a reader node in a different AZ,
which is going to give us availability,
enhanced availability, as well as better reads
across AZ and fast failovers.
So this will cost more money,
but at least I can show you the full power of Aurora.
Next, for compute resource, we are not going to connect
to an EC2 resource.
We're going to choose a network type of IPv4,
this is going to be enough for our needs,
but if you have IPv6 as well in your VPC,
you can use dual stack mode.
Then you are going to be in the VPC.
That is the default VPC with the default submit group.
I will yes, allow public access to allow access
to the Aurora database from a public IP.
And for VPC security group, I'm going to create a new one
and I will call it demo database Aurora,
which will allow us to connect to our Aurora database.
Next, for additional configuration,
we can see that the database port is 3306,
which is the MySQL port.
If you selected MySQL before.
So we have the option to also have local write forwarding
in case the rights are applied to the read replica.
Then they will be forwarded automatically
to the write instance.
This is allowing you to have
an easier connection management.
Now, we can also have database authentication,
to use IAM based database application
or Kerberos based to basically authenticate a user
using an external mechanism.
We have enhanced monitoring.
I can disable it because we don't need it.
And we have additional options for your database.
For example, the initial database name is going to be my DB,
and then backup retention is going to be one day.
This is great.
We can have encryption for our database.
We have several options around backtracking
to rewind our database,
and log exports, but I will not go over them.
We have deletion protection
to protect the database from being accidentally deleted,
but everything looks fine now.
And as you can see, we have some monthly costs.
So make sure that you are aware of this
by creating this Aurora database.
So let's go ahead and create this database.
So my Aurora database is created.
And as we can see, we have a regional cluster
with a writer instance and a reader instance.
So here, the important fact is that
we have different instance to write and to read from,
and there are in different AZ.
So this is the whole power of Aurora.
So if you click on database two, as we can see
to connect, we have two endpoints.
We have a reader endpoints and a writer endpoints.
So these endpoints are very handy
because they represent an endpoint
that will always lead to the right writer instance.
And this endpoint will always lead
to the right reader instance.
So these endpoints is what your application
should be using to connect to Aurora.
But if you were to click directly
on this specific instance right here,
this instance would have also a dedicated endpoint.
And that instance over here would also have
a dedicated endpoint once it is being created.
So it's still being in the creating space.
Okay, so we have these feature that are cool.
Then, we have other features,
so we can add more readers into our reader cluster
to add on with scaling capacity.
And we can also create a cross-region read replica
if you want to have a replica in another region.
We can restore in point in time.
And another one is that we could add replica auto-scaling.
So this one is very important
because well, we can create a policy.
And this policy would say, Hey,
based on the average utilization of your Aurora replica
or the average number of connections to your Aurora replica,
then scale your read replica.
So say read replica scaling policy.
And say, okay, I want to make sure that my read replica
stay at the target value of 60%.
And if I go over, please create more read replica.
We could also define a scaling period
for the scaling policy, which makes sense.
And what's the min and the max capacity.
So one replica up to 15 Aurora replicas.
And this is very handy to have a Read replica
Auto-scaling as a database.
So I cancel it, we don't need it right now.
And now I've made sure that both my points,
my database and endpoints are available.
So we're good to go.
So one last thing I can do
to show you the whole power of Aurora
is to do action and add AWS region.
And this is only possible if you chose a version of Aurora
that was enabled with the global database feature.
But here we can add the database region to other regions,
and this will allow you to get a global Aurora.
Now, as you can see, this is not possible with this cluster
because we need to have an instance
with a compatible size to do this first.
So we need to change the instance, for example,
to a large type of instance,
and then we would be able to add other regions
to the database cluster.
But anyway, I wanted to show you the feature right here.
Okay, so that's it for Aurora.
This is pretty much what you get,
which is an amazing database with amazing performance,
great, great scaling capacity, global and so on serverless.
So really, really complete database.
I really like this offering from AWS.
Now to be done with this hands-on, just take this database
and you want to delete it,
but as you can see, it's not available.
So what you need to do first
is to delete the reader instance.
So type delete me.
Then you need to delete the writer instance.
So again, action, delete, and then you type delete me.
And then once both these things are deleted,
you are going to be able to delete your whole cluster.
So I will wait when it's done.
That's it.
My database is now deleted,
and I will see you in the next lecture.